# Project Overview

*This MySQL project is a cloned mimic version of Instagram's database. It is used to perform data analysis for real world business related questions and scenarios.*

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### SQL is the language used to create the database and analyse it. And Tableau is used to visualize the dataset. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Data and Exploration

### Dataset: <br />

The dataset used in this Hadoop-Hive Case Study is collected from the official website of the [NYC Taxi and Limousine Commission (TLC)](https://www1.nyc.gov/site/tlc/about/tlc-trip-record-data.page) of the year 2015. The yellow taxi trip records include fields capturing pick-up and drop-off dates/times, pick-up and drop-off locations, trip distances, itemized fares, rate types, payment types, and driver-reported passenger counts.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Exploration Questions: <br />
 
**In this case study I explored the following questions:**
 
1. What is the total number of trips (equal to the number of rows)?
2. What is the total revenue generated by all the trips?
3. What fraction of the total is paid for tolls? 
4. What fraction of it is driver tips?
5. What is the average trip amount?
6. What is the average distance of the trips?
7. How many different payment types are used?
8. For each payment type, display the following details:
  - Average fare generated
  - Average tip
  - Average tax
9. On average which hour of the day generates the highest revenue?
 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
